broid-slack/README.md, before:

[npm]: https://img.shields.io/badge/npm-broid-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/org/broid

[node]: https://img.shields.io/node/v/@broid/slack.svg
[node-url]: https://nodejs.org

[deps]: https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-checked-green.svg?style=flat
[deps-url]: #integrations

[tests]: https://img.shields.io/travis/broidHQ/integrations/master.svg
[tests-url]: https://travis-ci.org/broidHQ/integrations

[bithound]: https://img.shields.io/bithound/code/github/broidHQ/integrations.svg
[bithound-url]: https://www.bithound.io/github/broidHQ/integrations

[bithoundscore]: https://www.bithound.io/github/broidHQ/integrations/badges/score.svg
[bithoundscore-url]: https://www.bithound.io/github/broidHQ/integrations

[nsp-checked]: https://img.shields.io/badge/nsp-checked-green.svg?style=flat
[nsp-checked-url]: https://nodesecurity.io

[![npm][npm]][npm-url]
[![node][node]][node-url]
[![deps][deps]][deps-url]
[![tests][tests]][tests-url]
[![bithound][bithound]][bithound-url]
[![bithoundscore][bithoundscore]][bithoundscore-url]
[![nsp-checked][nsp-checked]][nsp-checked-url]

# Broid Slack Integration

Broid Integrations is an open source project providing a suite of Activity Streams 2 libraries for unified communications among a vast number of communication platforms.

> Connect your App to Multiple Messaging Channels with  One OpenSource Language.

[![gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/broidHQ/broid.svg)](https://t.broid.ai/c/Blwjlw?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=top&link=gitter)

## Message types supported

| Simple | Image | Video | Buttons | Location | Phone number |
|:------:|:-----:|:-----:|:-------:|:--------:|:------------:|
|   ✅    |   ✅   |   ✅   |    ✅    |          |              |

_Location, Phone number are platform limitations._

## Getting started

### Register your app/bot on Slack

- Instructions to create **bot**, can be found [here](https://api.slack.com/custom-integrations).

- Instructions to create **app**, can be found [here](https://api.slack.com/slack-apps).

_Notes:_ Interactive message are only supported on app (with Oauth bot token).

You can generate one for test with this command: ``node bin/oauth.js --new -c client_id -s secret_id``

### Install

```bash
npm install --save @broid/slack
```

### Connect to Slack

```javascript
const BroidSlack = require('@broid/slack');

const slack = new BroidSlack({
  token: 'xxxxx',
  http: {
    host: '127.0.0.1',
    port: 8080
  }
});

slack.connect()
  .subscribe({
    next: data => console.log(data),
    error: err => console.error(`Something went wrong: ${err.message}`),
    complete: () => console.log('complete'),
  });
```

Slack can also be used with your existing express setup.

```javascript
const BroidSlack = require('broid-slack');
const express = require("express");

const slack  = new BroidSlack({
  token: 'xxxxx'
});

const app = express();
app.use("/slack", slack.getRouter());

slack.connect()
  .subscribe({
    next: data => console.log(data),
    error: err => console.error(`Something went wrong: ${err.message}`),
    complete: () => console.log('complete'),
  });

app.listen(8080);
```

**Options available**

| name             | Type     | default    | Description  |
| ---------------- |:--------:| :--------: | --------------------------|
| serviceID       | string   | random     | Arbitrary identifier of the running instance |
| logLevel        | string   | `info`     | Can be : `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, `trace` |
| token           | string   |            | Your access token |
| http             | object   |            | WebServer options (`host`, `port`) |

### Receive a message

```javascript
slack.listen()
  .subscribe({
    next: data => console.log(`Received message: ${data}`),
    error: err => console.error(`Something went wrong: ${err.message}`),
    complete: () => console.log('complete'),
  });
```

### Post a message

To send a message, the format should use the [broid-schemas](https://github.com/broidHQ/integrations/tree/master/integrations/broid-schemas).

```javascript
const formatted_message = {
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world"
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
};

slack.send(formatted_message)
  .then(() => console.log("ok"))
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

## Buttons supported

This adapter support the [interactive messages](https://api.slack.com/docs/message-buttons)

## Examples of messages

### Message received

- A direct message received from Sally

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "generator": {
    "id": "58a48f11-d623-475a-9335-80f9466ea08b",
    "name": "slack",
    "type": "Service"
  },
  "published": 1483872057,
  "type": "Create",
  "actor": {
    "id": "U0K81Q8N3",
    "name": "Sally",
    "type": "Person"
  },
  "target": {
    "id": "D3LGCDRM1",
    "name": "D3LGCDRM1",
    "type": "Person"
  },
  "object": {
    "content": "hello world",
    "id": "1483872057.000018",
    "type": "Note"
  }
}
```

- A message received from Sally on Channel/Group

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "generator": {
    "id": "58a48f11-d623-475a-9335-80f9466ea08b",
    "name": "slack",
    "type": "Service"
  },
  "published": 1483872034,
  "type": "Create",
  "actor": {
    "id": "U0K81Q8N3",
    "name": "Sally",
    "type": "Person"
  },
  "target": {
    "id": "G3LT1PUN2",
    "name": "G3LT1PUN2",
    "type": "Group"
  },
  "object": {
    "content": "hello world on group",
    "id": "1483872034.000005",
    "type": "Note"
  }
}

```

- A interactive message callback

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "published": 1483495367,
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "a99f63b0-aa77-40b4-8cf5-4ae3d694ed94",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "id": "1483495367.753793",
    "content": "https://www.broid.ai",
    "context": {
      "type": "Object",
      "name": "interactive_message_callback",
      "content": "03722c50-14d6-4501-a7d7-18c833079a49#https://hooks.slack.com/actions/xxxx/xxxxx"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG",
    "name": "channelname"
  },
  "actor": {
    "id": "U0K81Q8N3",
    "type": "Person",
    "name": "sally"
  }
}
```

### Send a message

- Send a simple message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world"
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
}
```

- Edit a message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world edited",
    "id": "1483406119.000020",
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
}
```

- Delete a message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "",
    "id": "1483406119.000020",
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
}
```

- Send a Image

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Image",
    "content": "this is a image!",
    "url": "http://url_of/images/image.png"
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG"
  }
}
```

- Send quick reply message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world",
    "attachment": [{
        "type": "Button",
        "content": "Broid's website",
        "name": "broid",
        "mediaType": "text/html",
        "url": "https://www.broid.ai"
    }, {
        "type": "Button",
        "content": "Falken's Maze Confirm",
        "name": "maze",
        "url": "value_maze",
        "attachment": {
          "name": "Falken's Maze",
          "content": "Can you confirm?",
          "yesLabel": "Yes",
          "noLabel": "No"
        }
    }]
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG"
  }
}
```

- Respond to interactive message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "go for http://broid.ai",
    "context" : {
      "type": "Object",
      "name": "interactive_message_callback",
      "content": "03722c50-14d6-4501-a7d7-18c833079a49#https://hooks.slack.com/actions/xxxx/xxxxx"
    },    
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG"
  }
}
```

# Contributing to Broid

Broid is an open source project. Broid wouldn't be where it is now without contributions by the community. Please consider forking Broid to improve, enhance or fix issues. If you feel like the community will benefit from your fork, please open a pull request.

And because we want to do the better for you. Help us improving Broid by
sharing your feedback on our [Integrations GitHub Repo](https://github.com/broidhq/integrations) and let's build Broid together!

## Code of Conduct

Make sure that you're read and understand the [Code of Conduct](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/2/0/).

## Copyright & License

Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Broid.ai

This project is licensed under the AGPL 3, which can be
[found here](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html).

Commit message:

docs(slack): add instructions on how to obtain token

broid-slack/README.md, after:

[npm]: https://img.shields.io/badge/npm-broid-green.svg?style=flat
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/org/broid

[node]: https://img.shields.io/node/v/@broid/slack.svg
[node-url]: https://nodejs.org

[deps]: https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-checked-green.svg?style=flat
[deps-url]: #integrations

[tests]: https://img.shields.io/travis/broidHQ/integrations/master.svg
[tests-url]: https://travis-ci.org/broidHQ/integrations

[bithound]: https://img.shields.io/bithound/code/github/broidHQ/integrations.svg
[bithound-url]: https://www.bithound.io/github/broidHQ/integrations

[bithoundscore]: https://www.bithound.io/github/broidHQ/integrations/badges/score.svg
[bithoundscore-url]: https://www.bithound.io/github/broidHQ/integrations

[nsp-checked]: https://img.shields.io/badge/nsp-checked-green.svg?style=flat
[nsp-checked-url]: https://nodesecurity.io

[![npm][npm]][npm-url]
[![node][node]][node-url]
[![deps][deps]][deps-url]
[![tests][tests]][tests-url]
[![bithound][bithound]][bithound-url]
[![bithoundscore][bithoundscore]][bithoundscore-url]
[![nsp-checked][nsp-checked]][nsp-checked-url]

# Broid Slack Integration

Broid Integrations is an open source project providing a suite of Activity Streams 2 libraries for unified communications among a vast number of communication platforms.

> Connect your App to Multiple Messaging Channels with  One OpenSource Language.

[![gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/broidHQ/broid.svg)](https://t.broid.ai/c/Blwjlw?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=top&link=gitter)

## Message types supported

| Simple | Image | Video | Buttons | Location | Phone number |
|:------:|:-----:|:-----:|:-------:|:--------:|:------------:|
|   ✅    |   ✅   |   ✅   |    ✅    |          |              |

_Location, Phone number are platform limitations._

## Getting started

### Register your app/bot on Slack

- Instructions to create **bot**, can be found [here](https://api.slack.com/custom-integrations).

- Instructions to create **app**, can be found [here](https://api.slack.com/slack-apps).

_Notes:_ Interactive message are only supported on app (with Oauth bot token).

You can generate one for test with this command: ``node bin/oauth.js --new -c client_id -s secret_id``

### Install

```bash
npm install --save @broid/slack
```

### Connect to Slack

```javascript
const BroidSlack = require('@broid/slack');

const slack = new BroidSlack({
  token: 'xxxxx',
  http: {
    host: '127.0.0.1',
    port: 8080
  }
});

slack.connect()
  .subscribe({
    next: data => console.log(data),
    error: err => console.error(`Something went wrong: ${err.message}`),
    complete: () => console.log('complete'),
  });
```

Slack can also be used with your existing express setup.

```javascript
const BroidSlack = require('broid-slack');
const express = require("express");

const slack  = new BroidSlack({
  token: 'xxxxx'
});

const app = express();
app.use("/slack", slack.getRouter());

slack.connect()
  .subscribe({
    next: data => console.log(data),
    error: err => console.error(`Something went wrong: ${err.message}`),
    complete: () => console.log('complete'),
  });

app.listen(8080);
```

**Options available**

| name             | Type     | default    | Description  |
| ---------------- |:--------:| :--------: | --------------------------|
| serviceID       | string   | random     | Arbitrary identifier of the running instance |
| logLevel        | string   | `info`     | Can be : `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, `trace` |
| token           | string   |            | Your access token |
| http             | object   |            | WebServer options (`host`, `port`) |


### Generate the "Bot User Token"

`broid-slack` needs the "Bot User Token" to authenticate against the Slack RTM and Web Client. To obtain this client, you can use the script at `bin/oauth.js`. You will need your "Client ID" and your "Client Secret":

```sh
$ ./oauth.js --new --clientID xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx --clientSecret yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
```

This will open your default web browser and guide you to obtain the needeed token (easily spotted starting with: `xoxp-`). Alternatively you can obtain a "Legacy Token" [here](https://api.slack.com/custom-integrations/legacy-tokens).

### Receive a message

```javascript
slack.listen()
  .subscribe({
    next: data => console.log(`Received message: ${data}`),
    error: err => console.error(`Something went wrong: ${err.message}`),
    complete: () => console.log('complete'),
  });
```

### Post a message

To send a message, the format should use the [broid-schemas](https://github.com/broidHQ/integrations/tree/master/integrations/broid-schemas).

```javascript
const formatted_message = {
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world"
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
};

slack.send(formatted_message)
  .then(() => console.log("ok"))
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

## Buttons supported

This adapter support the [interactive messages](https://api.slack.com/docs/message-buttons)

## Examples of messages

### Message received

- A direct message received from Sally

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "generator": {
    "id": "58a48f11-d623-475a-9335-80f9466ea08b",
    "name": "slack",
    "type": "Service"
  },
  "published": 1483872057,
  "type": "Create",
  "actor": {
    "id": "U0K81Q8N3",
    "name": "Sally",
    "type": "Person"
  },
  "target": {
    "id": "D3LGCDRM1",
    "name": "D3LGCDRM1",
    "type": "Person"
  },
  "object": {
    "content": "hello world",
    "id": "1483872057.000018",
    "type": "Note"
  }
}
```

- A message received from Sally on Channel/Group

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "generator": {
    "id": "58a48f11-d623-475a-9335-80f9466ea08b",
    "name": "slack",
    "type": "Service"
  },
  "published": 1483872034,
  "type": "Create",
  "actor": {
    "id": "U0K81Q8N3",
    "name": "Sally",
    "type": "Person"
  },
  "target": {
    "id": "G3LT1PUN2",
    "name": "G3LT1PUN2",
    "type": "Group"
  },
  "object": {
    "content": "hello world on group",
    "id": "1483872034.000005",
    "type": "Note"
  }
}

```

- A interactive message callback

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "published": 1483495367,
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "a99f63b0-aa77-40b4-8cf5-4ae3d694ed94",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "id": "1483495367.753793",
    "content": "https://www.broid.ai",
    "context": {
      "type": "Object",
      "name": "interactive_message_callback",
      "content": "03722c50-14d6-4501-a7d7-18c833079a49#https://hooks.slack.com/actions/xxxx/xxxxx"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG",
    "name": "channelname"
  },
  "actor": {
    "id": "U0K81Q8N3",
    "type": "Person",
    "name": "sally"
  }
}
```

### Send a message

- Send a simple message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world"
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
}
```

- Edit a message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world edited",
    "id": "1483406119.000020",
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
}
```

- Delete a message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "",
    "id": "1483406119.000020",
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Person",
    "id": "C1E3X0RRB"
  }
}
```

- Send a Image

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Image",
    "content": "this is a image!",
    "url": "http://url_of/images/image.png"
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG"
  }
}
```

- Send quick reply message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "hello world",
    "attachment": [{
        "type": "Button",
        "content": "Broid's website",
        "name": "broid",
        "mediaType": "text/html",
        "url": "https://www.broid.ai"
    }, {
        "type": "Button",
        "content": "Falken's Maze Confirm",
        "name": "maze",
        "url": "value_maze",
        "attachment": {
          "name": "Falken's Maze",
          "content": "Can you confirm?",
          "yesLabel": "Yes",
          "noLabel": "No"
        }
    }]
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG"
  }
}
```

- Respond to interactive message

```json
{
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Create",
  "generator": {
    "id": "f6e92eb6-f69e-4eae-8158-06613461cf3a",
    "type": "Service",
    "name": "slack"
  },
  "object": {
    "type": "Note",
    "content": "go for http://broid.ai",
    "context" : {
      "type": "Object",
      "name": "interactive_message_callback",
      "content": "03722c50-14d6-4501-a7d7-18c833079a49#https://hooks.slack.com/actions/xxxx/xxxxx"
    },    
  },
  "to": {
    "type": "Group",
    "id": "C1L7YRBLG"
  }
}
```

# Contributing to Broid

Broid is an open source project. Broid wouldn't be where it is now without contributions by the community. Please consider forking Broid to improve, enhance or fix issues. If you feel like the community will benefit from your fork, please open a pull request.

And because we want to do the better for you. Help us improving Broid by
sharing your feedback on our [Integrations GitHub Repo](https://github.com/broidhq/integrations) and let's build Broid together!

## Code of Conduct

Make sure that you're read and understand the [Code of Conduct](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/2/0/).

## Copyright & License

Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Broid.ai

This project is licensed under the AGPL 3, which can be
[found here](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html).
